---
title: "On using `ssh`"
date: 2019-06-27
categories:
tags:
  - network
  - ssh
  - proxy
  - tunnel
  - tensorboard
---

## Verbose mode

Option `-v` (can be used multiple times for increasing levels of verbosity) turns on verbose mode for debugging.

## Setting up public-key based authentication on a distant host

1. Generate a local priavte/public key pair using `ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096`.
2. Push local public-key to the server:
    > `ssh-copy-id -i <path/to/identity-file> user@hostname.example.com`

    (this adds the key to the `~/.ssh/authorized_keys` file)

### Public-key based authentication not working

A possible explanation and solution is given in this blog post: https://www.daveperrett.com/articles/2010/09/14/ssh-authentication-refused/

This can happen if one manually creates the `~/.ssh/authorized_keys` file on
the host machine.

* Displayed error (could be found in `/var/log/secure` on host or printed by
  the local `ssh` in verbose mode when attempting a connection):

`Authentication refused: bad ownership or modes for directory ~/.ssh.`

* Solution:

> SSH doesn’t like it if your home or ~/.ssh directories have group write
permissions. Your home directory should be writable only by you,
~/.ssh should be 700, and authorized_keys should be 600:

```bash
$ chmod g-w /home/your_user
$ chmod 700 /home/your_user/.ssh
$ chmod 600 /home/your_user/.ssh/authorized_keys
```

> You can also get around this by adding StrictModes off to your ssh_config
file, but I’d advise against it - fixing permissions is the way to go.

## Proxy-based ssh-ing

See this tutorial: https://doc.fedora-fr.org/wiki/SSH:_Simplifier_une_connexion_passant_par_un_Proxy

* Scenario:
    - Distant server located at `server-hostname` only accessible/visible on
    a private network accessed through a proxy-host at `proxy-hostname`

* Edit the local `~/.ssh/config` file with the following set-up:

```text
Host MYPROXYNAME  # defines the local name for the host, can be chosen freely
    Hostname proxy-hostname  # valid host location, DNS or IP address
    User username-on-proxy  # username used to connect to the proxy

Host MYSERVERNAME  # again, can be chosen freely
    User username-on-server  # username used to connect to server from proxy
    # tells ssh to first proxy through MYPROXYNAME using netcat
    ProxyCommand ssh MYPROXYNAME nc server-hostname 22
```

* `ssh MYSERVERNAME` then allows to directly connect to the server.
    - Can be used to reference the server in other tools (e.g. `rsync`) on the
    local machine.

## Setting up an SSH tunnel

* Can be useful e.g. to set-up a TensorBoard on a distant cluster and access it
locally.

* `ssh -N MYHOST -L :local-port:distant-address:distant-port`
    - `-L` is the main option, it specifies the creation of a *L* ocal
    connection, i.e. a tunnel.
    - `-N` allows to not open a command-line on the distant machine and
    just leave the tunnel open.
    - `distant-address` is the address/IP/local 'Host' name of the distant
    machine to bind to. This can be (as in most cases) `MYHOST`'s address but
    can more generally be **any machine accessible from `MYHOST`**.

### Example usage with TensorBoard

* Say you have created a Host called `host` on your machine with IP
  `<host-ip-address>`
    - Note that some users on StackOverflow report disturbances when
    referring to the host with its DNS or local host name rather than the
    actual IP.
* Start a TensorBoard server on the distant host with:
    - `[user@host] $ tensorboard --logdir <path/to/logs/> --port 6006`
* Open a tunnel on your local machine:
    - `[user@local] $ ssh -N host -L :6006:<host-ip-address>:6006`
* You can now access the TensorBoard locally by opening <http://localhost:6006>
